<div id=toc></div>

# Table of Contents

- [astro-ph.HE](#astro-ph.HE) [Total: 1]


<div id='astro-ph.HE'></div>

# astro-ph.HE [[Back]](#toc)

### [1] [BeppoSAX-WFC catalog of fast X-ray transients](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.16845)
*J. J. M. in 't Zand,C. Guidorzi,J. Heise,L. Amati,E. Kuulkers,F. Frontera,G. Gianfagna,L. Piro*

Main category: astro-ph.HE

TL;DR: This paper presents a search for fast X-ray transients (FXTs) using BeppoSAX WFC data from 1996 to 2002, identifying 149 FXTs, including new discoveries. Analysis reveals a bimodal distribution linking short FXTs to GRBs/XRFs and longer ones to stellar/X-ray binaries. It also confirms consistency with the Einstein Probe findings.


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: The motivation is to characterize FXTs and distinguish between different astrophysical phenomena (e.g., GRBs, stellar flares) by analyzing their duration and spectra.

Method: Analysis of BeppoSAX WFC data targeting FXTs (1 sec–1 day durations). Excluded galactic X-ray bursts; focused on GRBs, XRFs, HMXBs, and stellar flares. Cross-matched with catalogs for identification.

Result: 149 FXTs detected; 63 new events. 38 flares from 22 stars (including three previously non-flaring stars). Redefined GRO J1753+57 as GR Dra. 100 GRBs (24 new), 11 HMXB flares. Bimodal duration/spectral hardness splits FXTs into short (GRBs/XRFs) and long (stellar/HMXBs).

Conclusion: FXTs are reliably categorized by duration and spectra. BeppoSAX results align with Einstein Probe's when instrument sensitivity is considered, validating the classification framework.

Abstract: We performed a search for fast X-ray transients (FXTs), with durations longer than one second and less than one day, through data of the Wide Field Camera (WFC) instrument onboard the BeppoSAX X-ray observatory collected between June 1996 and April 2002. (..) We focused our search on gamma-ray bursts (GRBs), X-ray flashes (XRFs), X-ray flares from high-mass X-ray binaries and stellar flares, while Type-I and II X-ray bursts from Galactic neutron stars were excluded. 149 such fast transient events were detected. 63 of these are new to the literature. 38 flares are identified with 22 nearby stars. Three stars have never been seen flaring before in X-rays or optical (NLTT 51688, GR Dra and UCAC4 255-003783). We find that the MeV transient GRO J1753+57 is most likely the same object as GR Dra rather than an AGN as previously thought. Eleven flares were detected from known high-mass X-ray binaries with irregular wind accretion (four of which are of the subclass of supergiant fast X-ray transients). 100 GRBs were identified of which 24 have not been published before. We classify 37% of the X-ray detected GRBs as XRFs with relatively large X-ray to gamma-ray flux ratio, gamma-rays being measured with the BeppoSAX Gamma Ray Burst Monitor. The duration/spectral hardness distribution of all FXTs is bimodal, separating the group roughly in transients shorter and longer than 1 ksec and with relatively hard and soft spectra, respectively. We identify the 'short' FXTs as GRBs and XRFs and the `long' FXTs as flares from nearby late-type stars and X-ray binaries. The BeppoSAX-WFC FXT sample is found to be consistent with the one observed by Einstein Probe, when the sensitivity of the two instruments is taken into account.

</details>
